# Cheap-Bus-Fare--Bus-is-the-convenient-mode-of-travelling
It ‘a tough   task to plan a trip, it need specific time and planning. You have to do lot of preparation before moving anywhere. When you plan any vacations or holidays with family or friends, it’s natural to have some savings in account. But in almost every case it’s not enough, therefore people plan their trip earlier like a month before or three months before. It helps you a lot because you know how much savings you have and you expend it accordingly. You desire to minimize your travelling cost and often search for cheap routes and cheap fare. But situation often became more complex due to expensive transportation. You have limited budget and you need an economical means of transportation which is not easy. Most of the people in the nation consider bus as affordable means as comparison to trains, flights or personal car. Over the years growth in this industries looking profit due to the rising the population of people asking for cheap transportation. So it is not guaranteed to get Cheap Bus Fare. Still with some understanding of how ticketing works one can easily get cheap tickets, bus pass is a good option where you can enjoy unlimited trips. But use of bus pass is depended on the bus company including how much you have used it.  Hike in prices Fare can be increase anytime in transport industry. So one should ready to accept it and mentally prepared for it. Rises in price may have many reasons and hike in fuel prices is one of the important reasons. Prices of fuels affects directly to bus fare, so anytime hike in fuel charge s can be reflected fluctuation in bus fare. Sizes decide fares It may be difference between fares of long size buses then small size. If you indulge with the reason, you will find that large size busses can afford more at single time, they have huge accommodation. Increase in bus fare not only depends on fuel prices, features like special seating, on board electronics, free Wi-Fi, blankets etc can also increase bus fare. Normal buses just have basic features and hence cost less, where luxury buses have so many features therefore you are oblige to pay extra cost for all these facilities. Bus companies have to expend so much money on maintaining these luxury buses so they charge high fare for these.   Distance  Distance scheduled for travelling is one of the most important reasons for high bus fare. Companies consider the kilometers or miles that has been travelled in hours on the road. So it’s totally become vice versa the more distance you travelled more fare you have to pay. Long distance travelling needs more than a single driver and bus companies has to bear two drivers so they demands extra fare from passengers.   Area You may see that bus charges different fares for the same distance but it is not common. The reason behind it is the region; city or town, which decides the fare. Companies work on the thought process that higher region people are rich and they can afford it. So if you are going to any town or any up class region you have to pay an extra amount for it. Bus companies try to utilize their business mind to charge high price.
